---
title: 'Solidity 0.8.25 Release Announcement'
date: '2024-03-14'
author: Solidity Team
category: Releases
---

Introducing the newest version of the Solidity Compiler
[v0.8.25](https://soliditylang.org/blog/2024/03/14/solidity-0.8.25-release-announcement).
This is a minor release following the Dencun hard-fork
on the Ethereum mainnet that occurred on March 13, 2024 at 13:55 UTC.

## Dencun Upgrade

The Dencun upgrade combines changes to both Ethereum's consensus and execution layers.
The full list of protocol changes can be found in [EIP-7569](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7569).

Solidity v0.8.25 serves as a ``Dencun``-compatible release and sets the default EVM version in the compiler to ``cancun``.

## Important Note

To raise awareness regarding the pitfalls of using Transient Storage opcodes mentioned in the specification of [EIP-1153](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1153),
the Solidity compiler introduced a change in v0.8.24 to emit a warning on the use of ``tstore`` in assembly.
In v0.8.25, this warning has now been reduced in frequency to occur only once per compilation run at the first occurrence of ``tstore``,
rather than on every single compilation.

The Solidity team is well aware of the feedback from our community regarding the warning and its impact. We are open to further discussions related to improving the developer experience.

To learn more Transient Storage about our rationale behind the warning, read the [full blog post about transient storage](https://blog.soliditylang.org/2024/01/26/transient-storage/).

## Full Changelog

### Compiler Features

 * Code Generator: Use ``MCOPY`` instead of ``MLOAD``/``MSTORE`` loop when copying byte arrays.
 * EVM: Set default EVM version to ``cancun``.
 * Yul Analyzer: Emit transient storage warning only for the first occurrence of ``tstore``.

### Bugfixes

 * Assembler: Prevent incorrect calculation of tag sizes.
 * Commandline Interface: Do not run IR pipeline when ``--via-ir`` is used but no output that depends on the IR is requested.
 * EVM Assembly Import: Fix handling of missing source locations during import.
 * SMTChecker: Ensure query is properly flushed to a file before calling solver when using SMT-LIB interface.
 * SMTChecker: Fix internal error caused by not respecting the sign of an integer type when constructing zero-value SMT expressions.
 * SMTChecker: Run Eldarica only when explicitly requested with `--model-checker-solvers eld`, even when it is present on the system.

## How to Install/Upgrade?

To upgrade to the latest version of the Solidity Compiler, please follow the [installation instructions](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.25/installing-solidity.html) available in our documentation.

You can download the new version of Solidity here: [v0.8.25](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.25).
If you want to build from the source code, do not use the source archives generated automatically by GitHub.
Instead use [`solidity_0.8.25.tar.gz`](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/download/v0.8.25/solidity_0.8.25.tar.gz) and take a look at [our documentation on how to build from source](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.25/installing-solidity.html#building-from-source).
We advise all Solidity developers to always upgrade to the latest version of Solidity in order to take advantage of improvements, optimizations, and most importantly, bug fixes.

And last but not least, we would like to give a big thank you to all the contributors who helped make this release possible!
