---
title: 'Solidity 0.8.23 Release Announcement'
date: '2023-11-08'
author: Solidity Team
category: Releases
---

Today, we announce the release of the Solidity Compiler [v0.8.23](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.23). This newest version of the compiler is meant to be a purely bugfix release that includes the fix for an important yet low severity bug.

Based on our investigations, we do not foresee real-world instances of the bug being used as an exploit or an attack vector and thus, we assess its overall severity as low.

## Important Bugfixes

### Fixing the invalid `verbatim` deduplication bug

A user reported a block deduplicator bug which led to blocks which are identical apart from the contents of verbatim instructions to be treated as equivalent and thus collapsed into a single one. The new release fixes this bug.

The bug existed since version `0.8.5` and did **not** affect Solidity code, only Yul code. Although the use of `verbatim` is not uncommon, the condition that two or more `verbatim` items should be surrounded by identical opcodes which trigger the bug is very specific.

Read our [blog post describing the bug](https://blog.soliditylang.org/2023/11/08/verbatim-invalid-deduplication-bug/) to learn more about how it manifested, what kind of contracts could be affected, and other technical details.

## Full Changelog

### Compiler Features

 * Commandline Interface: An empty ``--yul-optimizations`` sequence can now be always provided.
 * Standard JSON Interface: An empty ``optimizerSteps`` sequence can now always be provided.

## How to install/upgrade

To upgrade to the latest version of the Solidity Compiler, please follow the [installation instructions](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.23/installing-solidity.html) available in our documentation.

You can download the new version of Solidity here: [v0.8.23](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.23). If you want to build from the source code, do not use the source archives generated automatically by GitHub. Instead use [`solidity_0.8.23.tar.gz`](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/download/v0.8.23/solidity_0.8.23.tar.gz) and take a look at [our documentation on how to build from source](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.23/installing-solidity.html#building-from-source).

We advise all Solidity developers to always upgrade to the latest version of Solidity in order to take advantage of improvements, optimizations, and most importantly, bug fixes.

And last but not the least, we would like to give a big thank you to all the contributors who helped make this release possible!
